*************
Preliminaries
*************

Linear Algebra
==============

For vector spaces, assume all vector spaces are over the reals :math:`\mathbb{R}`. 

- finite dimensional vector space; in the sequel, you may assume that all vector spaces are of finite dimensional. 

    - What is the dimension of a vector space?
  
- linear independence (and dependence)
- spanning set (or a subspace spanned by vectors)
- basis
- change of basis 
- linear transformations 
- dual space and dual basis 
- inner product

.. Note::

    For the notion of a dual space and an inner product, the following two YouTube videos may be helpful.

  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LyGKycYT2v0sd
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4XojH3dgPq8


Abstract Algebra
================

For those who have experienced only group theory, replace the word *ring* by :math:`\mathbb{Z}` the integer ring, which is also an abelian group under addition.

- ring (or group) homomorphism
- fact: the kernel of a ring (or a group) homomorphism is an ideal (or a subgroup). 

The following requires some understanding of ring theory.

- polynomial rings over a field such as :math:`\mathbb{C}[x]` or :math:`\mathbb{C}[x,y]`, where :math:`x,y` are indeterminates (variables) over the complex number field: What kind of rings are they? For instance, are they commutative rings with 1, integral domains, unique factorization domains, principal ideal domains, or fields? It is a good time to review these definitions.
  
- fact: given a ring homomorphism :math:`\Phi: R \to S`, if :math:`P`` is a prime ideal of :math:`S`, then :math:`\Phi^{-1}(P)` is a prime ideal of :math:`R`.

  - What is the definition of a prime ideal?

- an ideal generated by elements
  
