# Convex cones 

Fix $N = Z^n$ and $N_R = Z^n \otimes R \cong R^n$. 
We will indentiy $N$ as a subset of $N_R$. 

A *ray* in $N_R$ is a positive span of a vector in $N_R$. 

Example.

When n = 1; we are on the real line. There are only three rays, the positive ray and the negative ray and zero.

Recall the zero ray is a subray of any ray. 

When n = 2; this is the usual visualization setting in linear algebra. 
It is the half of the 1-dimentional subspace spanned by a non-zero vector. 
As before the zero ray is inlcuded in every ray.

Differences in linear algebra over R and Z. Over R, every non-zero real number is invertible, but in Z only 1 and -1 are invertible. 
When choosing a generator of a ray spanned in R, it does not make much differenc between choosing (1,0) or (2,0). 
However, it is often required to choose (1,0) over (2,0) when dealing with integers (lattices).

Cone

A cone is a positive span of a ray or rays. 



Recall: There is an equivalent way to define rays ad half-spaces. 
We only consider the half-spaces through the origin.

Define H_w the halfspace defined by v in R^n. That is H_w = \{ v \in R^n \mid v \dot w \ge 0 \}. 

Example:

Cones in R^1

Cones in R^2

Intersection of finitely many half spaces <-> cone generated by finitely many rays

Dual space and pairing (inner product)


Rational cone:

Generators are in Z^n.

Strongly rational convex polyhedra


Subcones and fan:

In geometry, a point belongs to a curve and a curve belones to plane and etc. 
Recall these cones give rise to toric varieties and we can to preserve the cone containment for the variety containment.

